Dear David, 

Thanks for sharing this pre-analysis plan with me. This will be a fascinating
and important study, and I am very excited to hear what you find. 

I have a number of comments and questions that I listed below. In addition, I
have attached an article (and a lengthy appendix) that I co-authored that uses
a conjoint experiment to assess what features of a rape incident make the US
public more likely to view the rape as serious and/or worthy of punishment (a
study of the legitimacy of rape and its punishment, although we don't frame it
that way). It is a similar set up to your experiment 1. I am sharing it because
we got significant pushback on one aspect of the research design (and
ultimately added follow up studies) that might be useful for you to consider as
you are designing your initial study. (See the discussion about the forced
choice in section 3 of the appendix in particular.) 

In addition, the paper by Wilke and Cooper on gender differences in support for
lynching that I mention below is here:
<https://anna-wilke.com/mob_violence.6d820559.pdf>

First, I really like the attention to gender in your pre-analysis plan and
hypotheses. The gendered dimensions of lynching are under-explored and there
are some very interesting patterns in terms of victimization and participation,
as you suggest in the introduction.

For experiment 1, we faced major reviewer pushback on the forced choice aspect
of our set up. In our case, this was forcing the respondent to choose which
rape case was "worse," with no allowance for respondents who didn't believe
that either was worse. In your case, this would mean addressing a critique that
some respondents may not want to select either case for lynching because they
think lynching is wrong, immoral or never a good idea. There are many options
to consider (allowing a refusal/neither category, testing alternative designs
for a soft choice, etc.) We ended up adding another study to address reviewers'
critiques on this. 

You might consider adding an open-ended qualitative textbox for respondents to
explain why they selected their case. We did this in one of our follow up
studies and were surprised at the data it yielded; respondents were much more
explicit in their justifications than we had expected. It added richness to our
analysis that we found very helpful, and ultimately ended up in the attached
article. 

For the attributes: what is "molests"? Is that general harassment/bullying or
child sexual abuse? Also, you might consider adding whether the victim and
perpetrator know each other. This was an important factor in our results in the
rape study, and may be important in your context. For example, there are some
findings from the US lynching literature about new members of communities being
especially vulnerable to lynching. 

In the demographic questions: what about a family member being victimized in
the past year? 

In the hypotheses for experiment 1: I was surprised to see that you hypothesize
murder will be the key motivating crime. I would have guessed rape, especially
given your comments about crimes with female victims, and what we know about
the "justifications" for lynching in the US context, many of which were
unfounded accusations of the rape of white women. 

For heterogeneous effects: the Wilke and Cooper paper finds that women are more
supportive of lynching than men, which also reflects studies in the US that
women are far more afraid of crime than are men. In our Political Behavior
article, we had some surprising findings on race (evidence for racial sympathy
with black perpetrators and victims); there may be some alternative hypotheses
about race to consider in your context. 

In the description of experiment 2: We find in our new book that support for
vigilante justice is associated not only with a lack of trust in the justice
system but with a lack of trust in non-security institutions and an absence of
state-led governance in seemingly unrelated areas (sanitation, water.) Not sure
if you've seen this new article by Gina Bateson, but it might be helpful in
formulating some hypotheses:
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/0010414020957692

Those are just some quick thoughts--hope that they are useful. Thanks again for
reaching out, and I hope that our paths will cross again soon. 

Best wishes,
Dara
